In this lecture I'm going to briefly go over how you would go about using Gutenberg without any tools
or libraries.
It's just going to be pure Javascript in the resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to the repository called Gutenberg examples.
This is the official repository for Gutenberg.
Demo examples.
It shows you how to build your own blocks where Gutenberg the demos use some components that we haven't
gone over yet.
But a lot of it should make sense to you regardless.
What I like about this repo is that there are two versions for each demo.
There's the regular iOS 5 VERSION AND THEN THERE'S THE E next version.
Throughout this course we've been using the iOS next version meaning we've been using the command line
tools and libraries to build our blocks.
However it's not necessary to use those tools.
It's completely possible to create blocks using plain javascript.
If you scroll down you'll see that WordPress says the following for each of the examples and include
an iOS next example.
The following commands are required to build the plugins.
If you were to look into any of the E X next folders then you'll find some familiar files like the Babel
RC web page config and package dot Jason files you'll more or less see some of the same code we've been
using for our own blocks.
Let's go back and check out the basic block right away.
You'll notice that there is way less files than before.
There should only be two which are the index stop BHP and block dot J.S. files.
Let's start with the BHP file.
Nothing significant going on here.
All they're doing here is using the.
In it.
Hook to load the javascript file just like the E next version.
A lot of the code is handled on the javascript side rather than the p p side.
Let's go back and check out the j s file now.
Things are quite different here in this version.
The developers use a self invoked function to contain everything.
This step is optional but it's recommended because it keeps things encapsulated and it allows you to
grab certain properties from an object.
If you look at the bottom you'll see that the WP blocks WP dot ie 18 n and WP dot element.
Objects are passed in then at the top you'll see them referred to as blocks ie 18 in an element.
This is how you would have properties as their own variables as you can see it's not perfect.
Like restructuring it requires us to have nested code and you still have to break things down if you
want to have values as standalone variables.
Scrolling down you'll see the register block type function being called.
It works just like before you pass in a name and an object with the settings the properties are all
the same.
And this example the title icon and category settings are pretty straightforward.
The edit and save functions required that you return the code to render.
However this time J.S. X isn't being used.
Remember J.S. X is javascript not HCM l.
The code that you see here is what web pack turns GSL since you two create elements you need to use
the WP dot element dot create element function.
The example here shortens it to E L the create element functions works the exact same way the react
create element function does the first parameter is the element name followed by an object with the
attributes to add the last parameter is the content inside.
Right now things are simple it's just a paragraph element with some text and stylings applied.
Let's look at a more complex example.
Go back to the examples and select the recipe card block everything is basically the same as before.
Let's skip to the edit function.
There is a crazy amount of nesting going on here.
If you want to have an element inside of another element then you'll need to call the create element
function inside of a third parameter of the parent element.
Basically you're trying to write H.G. email with JavaScript.
It isn't too fun which is why I don't recommend it.
Especially if you're trying to create something complex.
If you're just creating a static block then this approach is fine.
This is why I taught you the iOS next approach.
While it does take some time to set up once you have a set up then you can forget about it and work
on your project.
That's basically it when it comes to working with iOS five blocks.
The only real difference is how you load in variables and create elements.
The rest of the settings and attributes work the same as before.
If it's all right with you we'll continue using iOS next for the rest of our blocks.